src/mdx/en/projects.mdx, before:

---
name: "projects"
locale: "en"
---

import ChipsWithIcon from '../../components/skills/ChipsWithIcon.astro'
import AvoidPageBreakInside from '../../components/AvoidPageBreakInside.astro'
import Divider from "../../components/Divider.astro";
import { 
    skillsForRwe, 
    skillsForCtream, 
    skillsForAtis, 
    skillsForHeidelbergCement, 
    skillsForKlarsolar, 
    skillsForSeeburger, 
    skillsForTeamviewer, 
    skillsForProctorAndGamble, 
    skillsForDaimler, 
    skillsForGameforge, 
    skillsForTimify,
    skillsForCybermanufaktur,
    skillsForArvato,
    skillsForEc4u
    } from '../../components/skills/skillsForProject'

<AvoidPageBreakInside>

# Project experience
<Divider />

## Test automation with Cypress and Jest for web applications in the energy sector
RWE AG
### 09/2023 - today in Essen/DE | freelancing via Soorce | Scrum | Remote & On Site
### Position: Test Automation Specialist

- Development of Cypress frontend integration tests.
- Creation of unit tests with Jest.
- Integration of TypeScript and Cypress in the CI/CD pipeline.
- Setting up a solution for local and shared Cypress Commands in an nx monorepo.
- Test-driven development of new components with Angular 17.

<ChipsWithIcon skills={skillsForRwe} />
</AvoidPageBreakInside>

<AvoidPageBreakInside>
## Implementation of an interactive chat system for a virtual assistant using ChatGPT
CTREAM GmbH
### 07/2023 - 08/2023 in Mainz/DE | freelancing via freelancermap.de | Scrum | Remote
### Position: Lead Frontend Developer

- Setting up infrastructure for a Next.js project.
- Implementation of responsive chat components with MaterialUI (MUI).
- Representation of messages in chunks to optimize usability and performance.
- Integration of text-to-speech functionality.
- Provision of the output bundle as a web component for external websites.
- Websocket integration with a Python backend for real-time communication.

<ChipsWithIcon skills={skillsForCtream} />
</AvoidPageBreakInside>

<AvoidPageBreakInside>
## Creation of user interfaces in the field of telecommunications surveillance
ATIS® Systems GmbH
### 10/2022 - 06/2023 in Bad Homburg/DE | freelancing via Solcom GmbH | Kanban | Remote & On-Site
### Position: Lead Frontend Developer

- Set up a React/TypeScript project using NX tools for efficient development.
- Implementation of Cypress tests that automatically record API responses and use them as mocks to ensure a reliable test environment.
- Set up a Webpack API proxy to bypass the same-origin policy.
- Configure TypeScript code generation for OpenAPI endpoints to make API integration seamless.
- Customization of Material UI (MUI) components to provide a customized user interface.
- Integration of a Jenkins pipeline with Gitlab and Rocket Chat to streamline the development and communication process in the team.

<ChipsWithIcon skills={skillsForAtis} />
</AvoidPageBreakInside>

<AvoidPageBreakInside>
## Participation in the development of the HConnect product suite from Heidelberg Materials AG
Heidelberg Cement AG - today Heidelberg Materials AG
### 01/2021 - 09/2022 in Heidelberg/DE | freelancing via Etengo AG | Scrum | Remote & On-Site
### Position: Frontend Developer of the Authentication & User Management

- Creation of Cypress tests and successful integration into Gitlab pipelines to ensure quality control.
- Automated generation of code coverage reports and test results for Cypress, seamlessly integrated with Jira X-Ray.
- Allowing out-of-source import in a CRA-4 mono repo to improve development processes.
- Successfully migrated mono repo from tslint to eslint and prettier to improve code quality and conformance.
- Test-driven development in the area of user management and authentication for the Hconnect product suite.
- Implementation of a Nginx Reverse Proxy Docker container for the React router.
- Realization of live SAS token generation for build scripts in Azure cloud for security and authentication.
- Conducted a Proof of Concept (POC) to migrate from Yarn1 to Yarn2 using Zero Install and pnp.
- Development of Node.js build scripts using Azure CLI and Azcopy to automate deployment processes.

<ChipsWithIcon skills={skillsForHeidelbergCement} />
</AvoidPageBreakInside>

<AvoidPageBreakInside>
## Creation of the Klarsolars solar panel configurator
Klarsolar GmbH
### 10/2020 - 12/2020 in Stuttgart/DE | freelancing via Pixelschupser GmbH | Scrum | Remote
### Position: Lead Frontend Developer

- The development of the configurator with Angular 10 was done using advanced technologies and proven best practices.
- Successfully set up a new project using Nx tools to improve development processes.
- Development of custom components for the configurator in Angular 10.
- Customization of Angular Material components using Tailwind CSS to implement design guidelines and optimize visual aesthetics.
- Successful data migration of the old configurator to seamlessly transfer existing data to the new system.
- Integration of a GraphQL backend with the Apollo client to enable powerful and flexible data query and manipulation.

<ChipsWithIcon skills={skillsForKlarsolar} />
</AvoidPageBreakInside>

<AvoidPageBreakInside>
## Modernization of user interface for SupplyOn AG in the automotive industry
Seeburger AG
### 01/2020 - 09/2020 in Bretten/DE | freelancing via it-experts | Kanban | On-Site
### Position: Backend & Frontend Developer

- Development of new React components in conjunction with MaterialUI to create a modern user interface.
- Customization and customization of MaterialUI components to tailor the design and user experience.
- Creation of extensive tests with React-Testing-Library and Jest to ensure the stability and quality of the application.
- Definition of new Dependency Cruiser rules to ensure the Dependency Inversion Policy.
- Implementation of an approach to integrate a PWA (Progressive Web App) into an existing monolith.
- Developing web services using JAX-RS and adding OpenAPI annotations to ensure clean API documentation and communication.
- Creation of a custom filter for AgGrid to effectively filter and display data.

<ChipsWithIcon skills={skillsForSeeburger} />
</AvoidPageBreakInside>

<AvoidPageBreakInside>
## Development of chat components for TeamViewer chat
Teamviewer GmbH
### 10/2019 - 12/2019 in Goeppingen/DE | freelancing via gulp.de | Scrum | Remote & On-Site
### Position: Frontend Developer

- Successfully refactored and updated the project's toolchain, particularly with a focus on using Webpack to ensure a more efficient development infrastructure.
- Introduction of component-based development to improve code maintainability and scalability and reduce development times.
- Development of special chat functionality components that enable smooth communication in the application.
- Implementation of a technological approach for lazy loading of an emoji picker in order to optimize the application's loading times and performance.

<ChipsWithIcon skills={skillsForTeamviewer} />
</AvoidPageBreakInside>

<AvoidPageBreakInside>
## Conception and development of a configurator for drugstores in cooperation with Procter & Gamble
Procter & Gamble (P&G)
### 07/2019 - 09/2019 in Karlsruhe/DE | freelancing via typzwo GmbH | Kanban | Remote
### Position: Lead Frontend Developer

- Introduced JSX and render capabilities in Vue.js to increase UI flexibility and functionality.
- Partitioning of components according to Atomic Design principles to ensure an efficient and scalable development structure.
- Performed schema extensions in MySQL to adapt the database functionality to the needs of the project.
- Development of special components for the configurator to optimize user interaction and experience in the application.

<ChipsWithIcon skills={skillsForProctorAndGamble} />
</AvoidPageBreakInside>

<AvoidPageBreakInside>
## Dashboards for Daimler AG: Visualization of metrics and key figures in production
ETECTURE GmbH
### 10/2017 - 06/2019 in Karlsruhe/DE | freelancing via xing.de | Kanban | Remote & On-Site
### Position: Lead Backend & Frontend Developer

- Successfully created a new build system using Webpack to streamline the development and deployment processes.
- Development of a new starter kit for React to increase the efficiency of building React applications.
- Set up a Node.js backend using Sequelize SQL and PostgreSQL to ensure robust data management.
- OpenAPI integration and setup of SwaggerUI for the middleware to enable clear API documentation and communication.
- Set up a comprehensive Jest Snapshot test suite to ensure code quality and functionality.
- Implementation of JSON web token authentication in the middleware to ensure secure and authorized communication.
- Creation of Docker Compose YAML build scripts to efficiently manage containerization and deployment.
- Set up Docker clusters with reverse proxy (Traefik) to improve application scalability and performance.

<ChipsWithIcon skills={skillsForDaimler} />
</AvoidPageBreakInside>

<AvoidPageBreakInside>
## Participation in the development of a new game launcher for Gameforge AG
Gameforge AG
### 05/2017 - 09/2017 in Karlsruhe/DE | freelancing via Gulp.de | Scrum | On-Site
### Position: Backend & Frontend Developer

- Development of middleware and microservices to support the distributed application architecture.
- Creation of Docker scripts to containerize and deploy the application.
- Implemented a comprehensive global logging solution for microservices in a containerized environment to improve visibility and troubleshooting.
- Conducted a Proof of Concept (PoC) for the migration of a web application from Angular 1.x to React to evaluate the modernization of the frontend technology.
- Extension of a webpack job for dynamic configuration injection at runtime in the frontend to improve the flexibility and customizability of the application.

<ChipsWithIcon skills={skillsForGameforge} />
</AvoidPageBreakInside>

<AvoidPageBreakInside>
## Backend development of an innovative scheduling system for medium-sized companies
Timify - today Termin App GmbH 
### 01/2017 - 04/2017 in Munich/DE | freelancing via Etengo AG | Scrum | Remote & On-Site
### Position: Backend Developer

- Successful refactoring of microservices to optimize code quality and scalability.
- Creation of comprehensive unit tests with Lab to ensure the functionality and quality of the applications.
- Development of an integration test suite using Postman and Newman to ensure smooth communication between different components.
- Creation of a new template for Lout to API documentation in Hapi.js to provide developers with clear and comprehensive documentation.
- Development of a new Mongo DB layer with Promise support to make data access and manipulation more efficient and ensure smooth data management.

<ChipsWithIcon skills={skillsForTimify} />
</AvoidPageBreakInside>

<AvoidPageBreakInside>
## Composition of Angular components and deployment in a design system library
Cyber Manufactory GmbH
### 03/2016 - 12/2016 in Karlsruhe/DE | freelancing via Cyperforum e.V. | Scrum | On-Site
### Position: Frontend Developer

- Setting up a Webpack 1 build job for an Angular 1.x project to optimize the development infrastructure.
- Integrate JsPlump into Angular 1.x to generate charts based on JSON data and enable visual representations.
- Developing Angular 1.x components specifically for Cyber Manufaktur GmbH customers to meet individual needs.
- Performing PHP and Wordpress development to successfully implement and customize various web projects.

<ChipsWithIcon skills={skillsForCybermanufaktur} />
</AvoidPageBreakInside>

<AvoidPageBreakInside>
## Java 8 development in a Java Enterprise application for receivables management at arvato
arvato Financial Solutions - Bertelsmann SE & Co. KGaA
### 01/2015 - 12/2015 in Baden-Baden/DE | Fixed Job | Waterfall | On-Site
### Position: Backend Developer

- Development and coverage of various artifacts from requirements management to go-live phase to ensure all project phases are successfully implemented.
- Successful requirements engineering to define clear and precise project goals and requirements.
- Performed schema changes in Oracle SQL to adapt the database structure to the needs of the project.
- Applying test-driven development methodology with building unit tests using JUnit to ensure code quality and functionality.
- Creation of mapping logics to efficiently transfer data between different systems and formats.
- Development of Groovy scripts for advanced data transformations to optimize data processing processes.
- Comprehensive documentation of the project in Confluence to ensure clear and structured communication within the team.

<ChipsWithIcon skills={skillsForArvato} />
</AvoidPageBreakInside>

<AvoidPageBreakInside>
## Software development and eterprise application integration at ec4u expert consulting AG
ec4u expert consulting AG - today DIGITALL
### 09/2012 - 12/2014 in Karlsruhe/DE | Fixed Job  | Scrum | On-Site
### Position: Backend & Frontend Developer

- Development of a cross-platform hybrid mobile application for recruiting with jQuery Mobile and PhoneGap.
- Comprehensive development of Oracle Siebel OpenUI applications using jQuery and JavaScript.
- Training of team members in HTML, CSS and JavaScript.
- Integration of REST services from Wordpress and transformation of data.
- Creation of automated tests with Selenium IDE.
- Development of a new CSS theme customization for Oracle Siebel OpenUI.
- Development of business services with Siebel tools.
- Implementation of requirements engineering and prototyping for various projects.
- Creation of mapping logics for efficient data transfer between different systems and formats.
- Integration of new fields and data mappings with XML in Oracle on Demand CRM Desktop.
- Independent development of a JavaEE web application using Oracle ADF for Stryker, including SOA integration and management of Oracle Java & Database Cloud Service.
- Development of a mobile web application for mapping Oracle Siebel CRM approval requests.
- Evaluation of Google Payment APIs (Google Checkout and Google Wallet) by developing a mobile web application.

<ChipsWithIcon skills={skillsForEc4u} />
</AvoidPageBreakInside>

Commit message:

update cv with latests projects

src/mdx/en/projects.mdx, after:

---
name: "projects"
locale: "en"
---

import ChipsWithIcon from '../../components/skills/ChipsWithIcon.astro'
import AvoidPageBreakInside from '../../components/AvoidPageBreakInside.astro'
import Divider from "../../components/Divider.astro";
import { 
    skillsForRwe, 
    skillsForCtream, 
    skillsForAtis, 
    skillsForHeidelbergCement, 
    skillsForKlarsolar, 
    skillsForSeeburger, 
    skillsForTeamviewer, 
    skillsForProctorAndGamble, 
    skillsForDaimler, 
    skillsForGameforge, 
    skillsForTimify,
    skillsForCybermanufaktur,
    skillsForArvato,
    skillsForEc4u,
    skillsForDHL
    } from '../../components/skills/skillsForProject'

<AvoidPageBreakInside>

# Project experience
<Divider />


<AvoidPageBreakInside>
## Implementation of the Automation Check for Letter and Advertising Mail in the DHL Business Customer Portal
DHL ITs | Deutsche Post DHL Group
### 05/2024 - 03/2025 in Bonn/DE | freelance via Grey Solutions and Ilume | Scrum | Remote
### Position: Lead Frontend Developer

- Integration of backend systems using REST APIs, OpenAPI, and Tanstack-Query (React Query).
- Setup and configuration of the automation check frontend project.
- Integration of the automation check into the business customer portal using Single-Spa (microfrontend architecture).
- Creation and management of build jobs for single-page apps (SPA) and microfrontends (MIFO).
- Development of a comprehensive test suite with Playwright for the automation check.
- Knowledge transfer and training of team members in React and TypeScript.
- Implementation of SSO login with Keycloak for the Printmailing Planner (an Angular application) in the business customer portal.
- Support in the integration of the Printmailing Planner into the business customer portal.
- Contribution to the development of a Playwright test suite for the Printmailing Planner.

<ChipsWithIcon skills={skillsForDHL} />
</AvoidPageBreakInside>

## Test automation with Cypress and Jest for web applications in the energy sector
RWE AG
### 09/2023 - today in Essen/DE | freelancing via Soorce and Haze | Scrum | Remote & On Site
### Position: Test Automation Specialist

- Development of Cypress frontend integration tests.
- Creation of unit tests with Jest.
- Integration of TypeScript and Cypress in the CI/CD pipeline.
- Setting up a solution for local and shared Cypress Commands in an nx monorepo.
- Test-driven development of new components with Angular 17.

<ChipsWithIcon skills={skillsForRwe} />
</AvoidPageBreakInside>

<AvoidPageBreakInside>
## Implementation of an interactive chat system for a virtual assistant using ChatGPT
CTREAM GmbH
### 07/2023 - 08/2023 in Mainz/DE | freelancing via freelancermap.de | Scrum | Remote
### Position: Lead Frontend Developer

- Setting up infrastructure for a Next.js project.
- Implementation of responsive chat components with MaterialUI (MUI).
- Representation of messages in chunks to optimize usability and performance.
- Integration of text-to-speech functionality.
- Provision of the output bundle as a web component for external websites.
- Websocket integration with a Python backend for real-time communication.

<ChipsWithIcon skills={skillsForCtream} />
</AvoidPageBreakInside>

<AvoidPageBreakInside>
## Creation of user interfaces in the field of telecommunications surveillance
ATIS® Systems GmbH
### 10/2022 - 06/2023 in Bad Homburg/DE | freelancing via Solcom GmbH | Kanban | Remote & On-Site
### Position: Lead Frontend Developer

- Set up a React/TypeScript project using NX tools for efficient development.
- Implementation of Cypress tests that automatically record API responses and use them as mocks to ensure a reliable test environment.
- Set up a Webpack API proxy to bypass the same-origin policy.
- Configure TypeScript code generation for OpenAPI endpoints to make API integration seamless.
- Customization of Material UI (MUI) components to provide a customized user interface.
- Integration of a Jenkins pipeline with Gitlab and Rocket Chat to streamline the development and communication process in the team.

<ChipsWithIcon skills={skillsForAtis} />
</AvoidPageBreakInside>

<AvoidPageBreakInside>
## Participation in the development of the HConnect product suite from Heidelberg Materials AG
Heidelberg Cement AG - today Heidelberg Materials AG
### 01/2021 - 09/2022 in Heidelberg/DE | freelancing via Etengo AG | Scrum | Remote & On-Site
### Position: Frontend Developer of the Authentication & User Management

- Creation of Cypress tests and successful integration into Gitlab pipelines to ensure quality control.
- Automated generation of code coverage reports and test results for Cypress, seamlessly integrated with Jira X-Ray.
- Allowing out-of-source import in a CRA-4 mono repo to improve development processes.
- Successfully migrated mono repo from tslint to eslint and prettier to improve code quality and conformance.
- Test-driven development in the area of user management and authentication for the Hconnect product suite.
- Implementation of a Nginx Reverse Proxy Docker container for the React router.
- Realization of live SAS token generation for build scripts in Azure cloud for security and authentication.
- Conducted a Proof of Concept (POC) to migrate from Yarn1 to Yarn2 using Zero Install and pnp.
- Development of Node.js build scripts using Azure CLI and Azcopy to automate deployment processes.

<ChipsWithIcon skills={skillsForHeidelbergCement} />
</AvoidPageBreakInside>

<AvoidPageBreakInside>
## Creation of the Klarsolars solar panel configurator
Klarsolar GmbH
### 10/2020 - 12/2020 in Stuttgart/DE | freelancing via Pixelschupser GmbH | Scrum | Remote
### Position: Lead Frontend Developer

- The development of the configurator with Angular 10 was done using advanced technologies and proven best practices.
- Successfully set up a new project using Nx tools to improve development processes.
- Development of custom components for the configurator in Angular 10.
- Customization of Angular Material components using Tailwind CSS to implement design guidelines and optimize visual aesthetics.
- Successful data migration of the old configurator to seamlessly transfer existing data to the new system.
- Integration of a GraphQL backend with the Apollo client to enable powerful and flexible data query and manipulation.

<ChipsWithIcon skills={skillsForKlarsolar} />
</AvoidPageBreakInside>

<AvoidPageBreakInside>
## Modernization of user interface for SupplyOn AG in the automotive industry
Seeburger AG
### 01/2020 - 09/2020 in Bretten/DE | freelancing via it-experts | Kanban | On-Site
### Position: Backend & Frontend Developer

- Development of new React components in conjunction with MaterialUI to create a modern user interface.
- Customization and customization of MaterialUI components to tailor the design and user experience.
- Creation of extensive tests with React-Testing-Library and Jest to ensure the stability and quality of the application.
- Definition of new Dependency Cruiser rules to ensure the Dependency Inversion Policy.
- Implementation of an approach to integrate a PWA (Progressive Web App) into an existing monolith.
- Developing web services using JAX-RS and adding OpenAPI annotations to ensure clean API documentation and communication.
- Creation of a custom filter for AgGrid to effectively filter and display data.

<ChipsWithIcon skills={skillsForSeeburger} />
</AvoidPageBreakInside>

<AvoidPageBreakInside>
## Development of chat components for TeamViewer chat
Teamviewer GmbH
### 10/2019 - 12/2019 in Goeppingen/DE | freelancing via gulp.de | Scrum | Remote & On-Site
### Position: Frontend Developer

- Successfully refactored and updated the project's toolchain, particularly with a focus on using Webpack to ensure a more efficient development infrastructure.
- Introduction of component-based development to improve code maintainability and scalability and reduce development times.
- Development of special chat functionality components that enable smooth communication in the application.
- Implementation of a technological approach for lazy loading of an emoji picker in order to optimize the application's loading times and performance.

<ChipsWithIcon skills={skillsForTeamviewer} />
</AvoidPageBreakInside>

<AvoidPageBreakInside>
## Conception and development of a configurator for drugstores in cooperation with Procter & Gamble
Procter & Gamble (P&G)
### 07/2019 - 09/2019 in Karlsruhe/DE | freelancing via typzwo GmbH | Kanban | Remote
### Position: Lead Frontend Developer

- Introduced JSX and render capabilities in Vue.js to increase UI flexibility and functionality.
- Partitioning of components according to Atomic Design principles to ensure an efficient and scalable development structure.
- Performed schema extensions in MySQL to adapt the database functionality to the needs of the project.
- Development of special components for the configurator to optimize user interaction and experience in the application.

<ChipsWithIcon skills={skillsForProctorAndGamble} />
</AvoidPageBreakInside>

<AvoidPageBreakInside>
## Dashboards for Daimler AG: Visualization of metrics and key figures in production
ETECTURE GmbH
### 10/2017 - 06/2019 in Karlsruhe/DE | freelancing via xing.de | Kanban | Remote & On-Site
### Position: Lead Backend & Frontend Developer

- Successfully created a new build system using Webpack to streamline the development and deployment processes.
- Development of a new starter kit for React to increase the efficiency of building React applications.
- Set up a Node.js backend using Sequelize SQL and PostgreSQL to ensure robust data management.
- OpenAPI integration and setup of SwaggerUI for the middleware to enable clear API documentation and communication.
- Set up a comprehensive Jest Snapshot test suite to ensure code quality and functionality.
- Implementation of JSON web token authentication in the middleware to ensure secure and authorized communication.
- Creation of Docker Compose YAML build scripts to efficiently manage containerization and deployment.
- Set up Docker clusters with reverse proxy (Traefik) to improve application scalability and performance.

<ChipsWithIcon skills={skillsForDaimler} />
</AvoidPageBreakInside>

<AvoidPageBreakInside>
## Participation in the development of a new game launcher for Gameforge AG
Gameforge AG
### 05/2017 - 09/2017 in Karlsruhe/DE | freelancing via Gulp.de | Scrum | On-Site
### Position: Backend & Frontend Developer

- Development of middleware and microservices to support the distributed application architecture.
- Creation of Docker scripts to containerize and deploy the application.
- Implemented a comprehensive global logging solution for microservices in a containerized environment to improve visibility and troubleshooting.
- Conducted a Proof of Concept (PoC) for the migration of a web application from Angular 1.x to React to evaluate the modernization of the frontend technology.
- Extension of a webpack job for dynamic configuration injection at runtime in the frontend to improve the flexibility and customizability of the application.

<ChipsWithIcon skills={skillsForGameforge} />
</AvoidPageBreakInside>

<AvoidPageBreakInside>
## Backend development of an innovative scheduling system for medium-sized companies
Timify - today Termin App GmbH 
### 01/2017 - 04/2017 in Munich/DE | freelancing via Etengo AG | Scrum | Remote & On-Site
### Position: Backend Developer

- Successful refactoring of microservices to optimize code quality and scalability.
- Creation of comprehensive unit tests with Lab to ensure the functionality and quality of the applications.
- Development of an integration test suite using Postman and Newman to ensure smooth communication between different components.
- Creation of a new template for Lout to API documentation in Hapi.js to provide developers with clear and comprehensive documentation.
- Development of a new Mongo DB layer with Promise support to make data access and manipulation more efficient and ensure smooth data management.

<ChipsWithIcon skills={skillsForTimify} />
</AvoidPageBreakInside>

<AvoidPageBreakInside>
## Composition of Angular components and deployment in a design system library
Cyber Manufactory GmbH
### 03/2016 - 12/2016 in Karlsruhe/DE | freelancing via Cyperforum e.V. | Scrum | On-Site
### Position: Frontend Developer

- Setting up a Webpack 1 build job for an Angular 1.x project to optimize the development infrastructure.
- Integrate JsPlump into Angular 1.x to generate charts based on JSON data and enable visual representations.
- Developing Angular 1.x components specifically for Cyber Manufaktur GmbH customers to meet individual needs.
- Performing PHP and Wordpress development to successfully implement and customize various web projects.

<ChipsWithIcon skills={skillsForCybermanufaktur} />
</AvoidPageBreakInside>

<AvoidPageBreakInside>
## Java 8 development in a Java Enterprise application for receivables management at arvato
arvato Financial Solutions - Bertelsmann SE & Co. KGaA
### 01/2015 - 12/2015 in Baden-Baden/DE | Fixed Job | Waterfall | On-Site
### Position: Backend Developer

- Development and coverage of various artifacts from requirements management to go-live phase to ensure all project phases are successfully implemented.
- Successful requirements engineering to define clear and precise project goals and requirements.
- Performed schema changes in Oracle SQL to adapt the database structure to the needs of the project.
- Applying test-driven development methodology with building unit tests using JUnit to ensure code quality and functionality.
- Creation of mapping logics to efficiently transfer data between different systems and formats.
- Development of Groovy scripts for advanced data transformations to optimize data processing processes.
- Comprehensive documentation of the project in Confluence to ensure clear and structured communication within the team.

<ChipsWithIcon skills={skillsForArvato} />
</AvoidPageBreakInside>

<AvoidPageBreakInside>
## Software development and eterprise application integration at ec4u expert consulting AG
ec4u expert consulting AG - today DIGITALL
### 09/2012 - 12/2014 in Karlsruhe/DE | Fixed Job  | Scrum | On-Site
### Position: Backend & Frontend Developer

- Development of a cross-platform hybrid mobile application for recruiting with jQuery Mobile and PhoneGap.
- Comprehensive development of Oracle Siebel OpenUI applications using jQuery and JavaScript.
- Training of team members in HTML, CSS and JavaScript.
- Integration of REST services from Wordpress and transformation of data.
- Creation of automated tests with Selenium IDE.
- Development of a new CSS theme customization for Oracle Siebel OpenUI.
- Development of business services with Siebel tools.
- Implementation of requirements engineering and prototyping for various projects.
- Creation of mapping logics for efficient data transfer between different systems and formats.
- Integration of new fields and data mappings with XML in Oracle on Demand CRM Desktop.
- Independent development of a JavaEE web application using Oracle ADF for Stryker, including SOA integration and management of Oracle Java & Database Cloud Service.
- Development of a mobile web application for mapping Oracle Siebel CRM approval requests.
- Evaluation of Google Payment APIs (Google Checkout and Google Wallet) by developing a mobile web application.

<ChipsWithIcon skills={skillsForEc4u} />
</AvoidPageBreakInside>
